Ignition data script
======

This script interprets .csv data generated by data-logging software. The data is read, interpreted, & graphs & number data are displayed as well as exported to a .png file in the working directory. 

More specifically, an exothermic sample is inserted into a high-temperature (1000°C) furnace, temperature is recorded using an IR thermometer. These results are saved as .csv files and usually repeated in triplicate.

Use
-----
Use of this script requires the statistical program [R] [1] and preferably the IDE [RStudio] [2]. The script also makes use of the R packages: grid, gridRxtra, & ggplot2.

There are three variables that need defined before using the program

- working directory
- filename prefix
- number of runs

####*Working directory* 
is the folder where the .csv logfiles are stored & read from. For example, if your working directory is found in "C:/Ignition/logfiles", you would enter the following in R: 

```
setwd("C://Ignition//logfiles")
```

Note the use of double forward slashes.

####*Filename prefix* 
is the common prefix that all .csv filenames have in common, and assumes that all names end in "-1", "-2", or "-3". You must appropriately name your files so the script can detect & create them. For example, my three filenames are as follows: "2014-05-10,test22-1", "2014-05-10,test22-2", "2014-05-10,test22-3". I would set the filename prefix as "2014-05-10,test22" by entering the following code in R: 

```
prefix <- "2014-05-10,test22"
```

####*Number of runs*
is the number of .csv file to be read for interpretation. In general tests are done in triplicate, so the value is left at "3". In some cases, however, there may be a broad range of testing that requires only 2 runs to determine a general pattern. In this case, the number of runs would be adjusted to 2 by entering the following in R:

```
numruns <- 3
```
####*Export to png (optional)*
enables or disables exporting the graphical plots to .png format. To enable, simply change the value to TRUE. To disable, set the value to FALSE:

```
export_to_png <- TRUE
```
 

Theory
--------
There are three valuable variables to be interpreted from this data:
- Time to exotherm
- Delta temperature
- Duration of exotherm

To determine the above values we need to define certain variables used to compute them:

```
Time to exotherm
= ignition time - drop time
```

```
Delta temperature
= maximum temperature - baseline temperature
```

```
Duration of exotherm
= time temp falls below baseline temp - time temp rises above baseline temp
```


Future changes
----
Features that may or may not be added in the future:

- Automatic exporting of data to png file *(added 2014-05-10)*
- Widget to prompt for variables rather than manipulation of code in R script
- Intergration with C++ to package into executable file rather than running from R


[1]:http://cran.us.r-project.org/
[2]:https://www.rstudio.com/
